- [Instructor] Azure functions as a compute service
from Microsoft Azure
that allows you to run serverless functions
without provisioning or managing virtual servers
in the cloud.
This runtime is scalable and can be multi-tenant
without managing any infrastructure at all.
Azure functions offer a robust set of language support
making this technology more open
for a wide variety of developers.
Azure functions, natively support
some of the most popular languages used
in cloud native computing today
including things like Java and Python.
There's also native support
for some other languages like Ruby,
C-sharp, Node JS and even PowerShell.
There's custom support for Go and Rust
through a custom handler definition.
Like many cloud-based service providers
Azure functions include the ability to trigger functions
based on actions and other cloud infrastructure
including message and event systems, databases and storage
and various other systems throughout the ecosystem.
As your functions as a serverless technology
in the Azure ecosystem,
plays very nicely with many of these other Azure offerings
as I just said,
Azure functions can be used to process data
or binary files through simple triggers in Azure.
Changes in Blob store, RDS or Cosmos DB, for instance
can trigger an Azure function to do work.
And of course, they can do the opposite
and write to Blob store or Cosmos DB.
Azure functions can be used to respond to web requests
through HTTP or Webhooks.
Data streams are a powerful option,
Asynchronous processing through integrations
with things like Rabbit and Kafka.
And this is really one of the most popular places to start
with serverless functions.
And for some use cases, IOT itself
is a powerful integration point with Azure's IOT hub.
And that really isn't it.
You can create Azure functions that are durable
meaning they maintain state if you choose to do so.
The bounds are endless
with Microsoft Azure serverless functions,
but you have to know where they're valid
and where they're not.
And we're going to talk about that in the videos coming up.
Now, Azure has provided many operational tools
around Azure functions to make it a truly effective system
for application development.
Out of the box the console itself provides base
but oftentimes rich enough monitoring
of your Azure function executions.
You can of course build customized dashboards
if your operational needs demand it.
Microsoft provides Azure functions core tools
a robust offering of CLI based tools
that include the ability to test these functions locally.
This is one of the best in class
for testing serverless functions without deploying them.
And it's a requirement to have this installed
on your machine for this course.
Now, when it comes time to deploy,
Azure functions provide many different paths
some of which we will look at through this course
including a very rich IDE integration
with visual studio code
and that's primarily what we're going to use in this course.
Now that we've seen what Azure functions offer,
let's take a look at serverless and what it offers,
its benefits as well as its detriments.